Quick recap of what BentaHub needs
These are the core features we already planned for the POS website:
Simple home or login page
Store dashboard with a quick summary
Today’s sales
Number of transactions
Low stock alerts


Product and inventory management
Add, edit, delete products
Set price, stock, category
Low stock warning


Sales or “New Transaction” page
Search or pick items
Set quantity
Auto compute total and change
Choose mode of payment (cash or QR)
Save transaction to history


Sales and expense records
Daily, weekly, monthly totals
List of past transactions
Simple expense log for deliveries, bills, and other costs


Basic reports
Simple tables that show trends over time
Example: total sales per day, most sold products


QR payment support
A place to store and show the store’s GCash or Maya QR
Short reminder text on how to pay using QR


“Community” or “Support” features (lightweight)
Page with guides or tips on how to use the site
Space to show links to training like DTI “Tindahan Mo, e-Level Up Mo”


Offline friendly behavior
Data saved in the browser (localStorage) so it still works with weak internet


Very simple interface
Big buttons
Filipino or Taglish labels where helpful
Minimal clicks to finish a sale
Step-by-step Guide
Step 1: Choose how to build BentaHub
Give him these two simple options:
Basic code setup
Use: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Store data using localStorage in the browser
Best for showing a “real” working prototype


Website builder (if he really cannot code)


Use Wix, Google Sites, etc.
But this will be hard for a POS with inventory and sales logic


For this project, basic HTML, CSS, and JavaScript is the safest and most flexible. Tell Rich that the goal is not perfect code. The goal is a working demo that can record products and sales.

Step 2: Set up the project folder
Inside one main folder called bentahub:
index.html
styles.css
app.js
assets/ (for icons, sample QR image, logo, etc)


Connect the files:
In index.html head section:
<link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
<script src="app.js" defer></script>


Step 3: Build a simple layout
In index.html, create:
A top bar with the title “BentaHub”
A side menu or top menu with buttons:
Dashboard
Inventory
New Sale
Records
QR and Payments
Help or Training


Use simple <div> sections and give them id like dashboard, inventory, sales, etc.
 Show one section at a time using JavaScript by hiding the others.

Step 4: Inventory page
Goal: Maria can list all her products and see the current stock.
On the Inventory section:
Table for products with columns:
Product name
Category
Price
Stock
Actions (Edit, Delete)


A form at the top or side that has:
Input for product name
Input for price
Input for stock
Dropdown for category (for example: snacks, drinks, load, others)
“Save product” button


In app.js:
Create an array products
On page load, read products from localStorage
When the user saves a product:
Push it into products
Save products to localStorage
Rebuild the table view


This already shows that BentaHub can track stock.

Step 5: New Sale page
Goal: The store owner can quickly record a sale.
Elements needed:
Dropdown or search field to choose product from the inventory list
Quantity input
“Add to cart” button
A table or list that shows the current cart
Product name
Quantity
Price
Subtotal


A summary box:


Total amount
Payment type: radio button for “Cash” or “QR”
Amount received (if cash)
Change due
“Confirm sale” button


In app.js:
When a product is added to cart, update the cart array and recompute total


When “Confirm sale” is clicked:
Save sale details to a sales array in localStorage
Subtract quantities from products stock
Clear the cart
Show a simple “Sale recorded” message



Step 6: Dashboard page
Goal: Quick overview for Maria.
Show:
Today’s total sales amount
Number of transactions today
Number of out of stock or low stock items


In app.js:
Read sales from localStorage
Filter by today’s date
Compute total and count
Read products and find those below a stock threshold such as 5


This does not need to be very fancy. Numbers and maybe simple cards are enough.

Step 7: Records and reports page
Goal: Show history and basic patterns.
Include:
A table of transactions with:
Date and time
Items count
Total amount
Payment type


Filter by date range (for example a dropdown or two date inputs)
Optional: simple “Summary” section such as:
Total sales in selected period
Most sold product


If can add a basic bar chart. If not, a table with totals is okay for class.

Step 8: Expenses tracker (simple version)
Inside the Records page or a separate tab:
Form to add an expense:
Description
Amount
Date


Table to list all expenses
Show “Total expenses this month”


Store this in expenses using localStorage as well.
This supports your “financial access and tracking” theme.

Step 9: QR and payments page
Goal: Make digital payments visible and simple.
Elements:
A box that shows:
Text like “Scan this QR to pay using GCash or Maya”


An image area to hold a sample QR (even if it is only a placeholder)
A short explanation of how to use QR payments in Taglish


If ever wanted let the user upload their own QR image using an <input type="file">, but a static image is enough for a prototype. No need for real payment integration.

Step 10: Help and training page
This page can:
Explain in simple steps how to use BentaHub:
How to add products
How to record a sale
How to see reports


Include links to real programs, for example:
DTI “Tindahan Mo, e-Level Up Mo” post
Other digital training for MSMEs


This shows that the site supports digital and financial literacy, which matches your research paper.

Step 11: Keep it offline-friendly
If not familiar with service workers, do this minimum:
Make sure all data (products, sales, expenses) is saved in localStorage only
Avoid features that need a server
Keep the site as a single-page application, so once loaded, it works even if the internet slows down


If he already knows how to add a service worker, he can later cache the files, but that is extra.

Step 12: Styling and UX polish
Use a simple color palette, for example, teal with a dark blue accent
Use large buttons for key actions like “New Sale” and “Save.”
Use clear Filipino or Taglish labels such as “Mag record ng benta” or “Idagdag sa paninda.”
Make text readable on both laptop and phone-sized screens


Can use plain CSS or a basic framework like Bootstrap if he already knows it.

Step 13: Fill with sample data and test flows
Before you take screenshots or record a demo:
Add several sample products (soft drinks, noodles, load, snacks)
Record a few sales with both cash and QR
Add some expenses
Check if:
Inventory updates after each sale
Daily totals look correct
Low stock alerts appear


These test runs will give you good screenshots for:
Research paper methodology and prototype section
Final pitch slides
Website visuals in the appendices

